Hello, everyone.
In this video we will learn about obstruction in Java.
This is again very important concept of Java there that we draw only essential details or data to the
user and we abstract and hide the most important part of it.
The trivial or the non-essential units are not allowed or not displayed to the user data.
Abstraction may also be defined as a process of identifying only the required characteristics of an
object and ignoring the irrelevant details.
Okay, so that is the purpose of data abstraction.
So let me simplify this.
So with a simple example of got okay, then you see a car when you drive a car, you don't know how
the brakes are functional, functioning internally.
But do you know when you press a brick, it will stop.
You know how the string moves when you want to take a left turn, when you want to take a right, then
what to do.
But you don't know internal functionality of that that is abstracted from from you, right?
So when you drive a car, you are not clear with what is actually happening inside.
So there are two things with which you can achieve data abstractions that is interfaces and abstract
classes.
These to help us to achieve that data abstraction so to hide non-essential part so user doesn't want
to know how everything inside the break there may might be so many components inside the brick to make
the brick work.
We don't know anything about that, but we know how to use the right so user knows what exactly should
be known to user and non relevant non useful non-essential tools are hidden from the user.
This is data abstraction that is like the I mentioned.
It is it can be done with the abstract classes and on it can be also it interfaces.
But in this video we will focus on abstract classes and abstract methods.
And abstract class is a class that is declared with the keyword abstract right.
When we declare any class, we just specify class and the class name.
Or if we want to make it public or private, then we need to add x, specify and specify the class keyword
and then class.
But for abstract we will add abstract class.
Then class and abstract method is a method that is declared without implementation.
That means a method is just declared and the implementation part is not yet added to an abstract class
may or may not have all abstract methods.
Some of them can be concrete methods.
A method defined abstract must always be defined in subclass, thus making overriding compulsory or
either make the subclass itself abstract.
So as we have seen the art in abstract, abstract methods are only death.
These are all only declarations, there is no method definition.
So basically manual event and subclass extend and abstract class right.
Then overriding is compulsory to use if you need to add some definition to it.
Right.
Otherwise you can.
What you're going to do is make that subclass also abstract class.
Then you don't need to add any definition to it and you don't need to override.
Otherwise it's a mandatory to override.
Any class that contains one or more abstract methods must also be declared as an act with an extra keyword.
Okay, so if the class has more than one method as a abstract, then make that class as abstract class.
There can be no object of an extra plus.
That is an abstract as class cannot be directly instantiated with a new operator.
You got this point right.
We cannot create object when we are creating in our examples what we do, we then we want to create
an object of a class we specified class name.
Then give the object name equal to new class name and the basis.
So we cannot create an object of this class.
Then an abstract class can have parameterized constructors and the default constructor is always present
in an abstract class.
Okay, these are some rules or oh and things you should know before writing an abstract classen metaphor.
Let us take an example of an abstract class here, which is sheep.
Okay.
This is a very classic example here, because the sheep can be extended by different classes like so-called
triangle, rectangle, anything.
And there are some constant things which each sheep has.
It has an area it has coloured.
It has.
Things like that.
Right.
It has multiple things for.
And how many sides it has.
What are its dimensions?
So all that things can be related to sheep and there are few methods which are common to all the shapes.
So we can make sheep as an abstract class and define these methods.
Sorry, declare this method.
Okay.
And then the definition can be added.
Then any class extends the abstract class sheep because the area calculation, the area calculation
formula will be different for circle for rectangle.
Right.
So the subclasses can add the declaration part of the method by overriding the method.
This is a best use case for up circles here.
Then let us see what are the advantages of abstract classes?
It reduces the complexity of viewing the things.
Yes, that is the main reason why we use abstract classes.
It avoids duplication.
Yes.
And increased usability because it has a new definition and we can implement the subclass and implement
it has to increase the security of an application or a program as only important details that are provided
to the user.
Yes, all these things at that.
Now, let us move on to the example here.
Abstract class.
Okay.
So in the example, also, we are checking out the example of sheep.
So shape is a parent class here, which is declared by the abstract keyword.
This makes this particular class as abstract now.
See, abstract, double idea.
Abstract public x string to string.
So this is an abstract method area.
This is a public abstract method.
Convert the string.
Then there is a constructor here with the parameter colour and there is a method to get the colour.
Okay, now see the class circle.
Okay.
In the circle, it has its own constructor.
It calls constructor and passes the colour of the shape.
Then it specifies its own variable to the radius.
So with the help of radius, it overrode the method area to calculate the area.
Okay.
Returns the area as a double.
Then it converts the string to string.
Right.
And then there is a rectangle that gains overrides this method.
It has its own constructor.
It also adds length and width and bars the colour to the super constructor that is abstract plus constructions
of the shape.
Okay, then you see here in the abstract class shape.
So it creates object of the circle class, then rectangle class, and then it calls to string method
directly.
Now let us start on this example and check what happens.
See now it shows all the things that are happening here.
Shape constructed is called circle.
Constructed is called shape constructed is called rectangle.
Constructed is called the date because internally called the super constructor.
Then circle color is red and media is this and rectangle color is yellow and it is this, right?
So this is a symbol and most common use cases of abstract class.
Try this example yourself and let me know if you have any queries related to checklists.
Thank you.
Let's move on to the next multi.